So we talked a little
bit about type casting.
So you can see here,
we have the frontEndMastersFounding: Date.
This is approximately right at least on
the corporate paperwork, it's right, 2012?
>> So the actual company
was incorporated in 2008.
>> Wow.
>> And I went full-time in
Frontend Masters in 2014, but
before then,
it was a kind of one-off event.
So it's a little bit complicated.
>> It's a little complicated.
This was a date I found somewhere,
so I used that one.
>> Probably, a ChatGPT or something.
>> Kind of it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Kind of it, so
it just did math.random and converted that
into something I just found the oldest
article I could find on the Internet.
So you can see date one, we used that.
Date one ends up being a date,
just through assignment.
There is, we can call this inference.
It's hardly inference here, cuz we know
exactly what type the value is here.
Date two, let's say we wanted some
degree of flexibility for some reason.
We can cast this to an any, right?
We looked at as any,
we looked at as 79 before, as const.
These are all varieties of casting.
Sometimes, TypeScript will object to
you doing certain types of casts,
and we saw that above when
we tried to do null as 79.
So as long as these types are compatible,
reasonably compatible,
types group will let
you perform this cast.
That's why when we had the question,
it's actually a good question,
when we had, can we cast 10 to a type
of 79, 10 and 79 are both numbers.
Conceptually, it almost makes sense.
I mean, we know if we're treating these
as literal types, they're not the same.
Maybe one day,
TypeScript will object to that.
Here's an example that
TypeScript will object to, and
I'm gonna back this stuff up here.
So we have a string, and
we're trying to cast that to a date.
There is just no intersection
between string and date.
They're so incompatible.
TypeScript, it's almost like it's asking
us, are you really sure you wanna do this?
These are very different.
You're not gonna be able to pass
this value around safely as a date.
And if we really wanted to tell
TypeScript we know what we're doing,
we'd first cast it to an any.
So you can cast it to a top
type back down to a date.
You might do this in tests, where you're
trying to create erroneous value.
And make sure that when it flows through
your code, it's caught at runtime,
the way that you would expect
unexpected values to be caught,
but this is funky code, to be sure.
And this is why it's dangerous to
do casting here where TypeScript is
perfectly happy to let us use a method
that's only available on dates,
certainly not on strings.
And at runtime, this will,
of course, blow up.
It's cannot call to ISO string on type
string, you'll get some error like that.
Cody in chat asks, is there a reason
to cast to any versus unknown?
Unknown as another top type, which we'll
talk about in the intermediate course.
All you need to know is
that it's a top type.
For this technique,
that's the only thing that matters.
There is no benefit to using one over
the other, you just must use a top type.
You can always cast to a top type and
then back down, and
there are some benefits to using
unknown which we'll explain later.
But it's not gonna come through here,
they're both equal.
They're both equivalent, cuz eventually,
it's coming back down to a date anyway.